In this lecture, you'll learn how to do a password recovery from watching a lab
demo. When we talk about password recovery, we're talking about recovering from a lost enable password
or secret.
Now, I know we haven't spoken about those yet.
We're going to cover them in a later section when we get to securing your Cisco router or switch.
For now, all you need to know is that you can set a password that is required to get to the enable prompt.
So, let's actually do that on a router.
So I'll go to global configuration mode
and I'll say, 'enable password Flackbox1' and 'enable secret Flackbox2'. The difference between these
is 'enable password' is really a legacy command, 'enable
secret' is the new form of doing it. So if I go 'end' here, and do a 'show run', you'll see the difference is
that the 'enabled secret' is always in an encrypted form.
When you do look at the running-config, 'enable password' is unencrypted by default.
So, that could be a security concern.
If you've enabled both 'enable secret' and the 'enable password', then the 'enable secret' overrides the 'enable
password'.
So anyway, 'enable password' isn't used.
We're always going to use the 'enable secret'.
Okay,
so our scenario is that an 'enable secret' has been set on this
router,
and we come to work on the router,
so we need to get to the enable prompt.
We type in 'enable', it asks us for a password,
and the problem is that we do not know the password,
and nobody else in the company does either.
So, we need to recover the password.
The way to do it is to boot up the router first into ROMMON mode.
Now, the way you normally do that is you power it on, and within the first minute, you hit Ctrl + Break,
the break sequence, and that will break into the ROMMON prompt. Because I'm on Packet Tracer here,
it doesn't really give me much time to do that, so I'm going to do it from the normal config instead.
So, I'm going to log in here if I can remember what the password was.
Okay, got it, and I'll go to 'config t' and I'm going to set the config register here.
So, I'll set it to 'config-register 0x2120',
and that's going to boot it up onto the ROMMON prompt.
That's obviously, normally, if you're doing a password recovery, you're not going to be able to get to config
mode to do it here.
So you would be breaking in when the router first boots up, or switch.
Okay,
so I've done that. I'll 'end' and do a 'copy run start' and then 'reload',
and this is going to boot-up into the ROMMON prompt.
Okay, so this is how I would do my password recovery, and why I need to go here is tell the router to bypass
the startup-config when it's booting up. The command for that is 'confreg'.
So it's a little bit different than it is at the normal command prompt, and to bypass NVRAM, which
is where the startup-config is, it's 'confreg 0x2142'. Hit Enter and then 'reset' to boot the router, and
you'll see that when it finishes booting up, it's not going to ask me for an enable password to get into
the enable prompt because it's booted it up with a blank config. You can see that's happened because it's
booted up into the Setup Wizard. So I will say 'no' here to bypass the Setup Wizard, and now I can hit 'enable',
and because it's not using the enable secret from a startup-config, it's not going to ask me for a
password.
Okay,
next thing that I need to do is to copy the startup-config into the running-config. I do that, and it's
going to copy the startup-config in that was already there, with all of the commands that are already
there, including that enable secret. But I don't need to know it because I'm already at the enable prompt.
Next thing I need to do is 'config t', and I'm going to set a new enable secret, or for this lab exercise,
what I'll actually do is I'll just go 'no enable secret' to remove it. Real world, you would always
want to have a secret for the enable prompt on the router.
So, you wouldn't actually do that. You'd actually just set a different secret that you know now, so
you can get in
next time it reboots.
Okay, last thing I need to do is a 'copy run start',
and now I'm all good.
I've got my existing config on there
that was there before.
I've reset the password, and I'm in to the router.
And next time that I reload, actually, did I reset the config register?
No.
Okay,
I forgot that. This is super important too.
Okay, so also at the global configuration, do a 'config-register 0x2102' is for the default
boot.
Okay,
Not so deliberate mistake there.
If I'd done that in the real world, then what would happen would be next time that I rebooted, it would go
back into I think it was the ROMMON prompt again, which obviously would not be good.
So don't forget to reset the config-register as well, 'end', and 'copy run start'. Actually, what you would
do in the real world at this point just to make sure that it will be good when it boots up again is
actually to do a 'reload'.
You're not causing an outage because you already had an outage right now anyway.
So once you've finished, just reboot it again. Take a couple of minutes, wait for it to boot up, and then check
that it loads correctly and that you can log in. So go to enable,
okay,
and it's asking me for a password.
I'll let you know a secret. I actually paused the video when this first happened because I was like, why
did that happen?
And then I thought,
okay,
and I realized. So what I want you to do now is pause the video and have a think about it,
because I did the 'no enable secret' command and I've rebooted.
I didn't forget to do the 'copy run start', I rebooted and it's still asking me for a password to
get into the enable prompt. So, have a think about why that is the case.
Stop the video for a minute if you have to.
When you start the video again, I'll tell you the reason why. Okay,
the reason why is that when we did the initial part of the lab, I set an 'enable password' and an 'enable
secret'.
When I did the password recovery,
I just did the 'no enable secret'.
I didn't do the 'no enable password', so there's still an 'enable password' there,
and that's what it's asking me for now.
Now,
in the real world,
it's highly unlikely you would run into this problem because you wouldn't do a 'no enable
secret'. What you would do is you would set a new 'enable secret', which would override the 'enable password',
and when you reboot it, it would be asking you for the secret that you just set here.
If you remember what we set, it was 'Flackbox1' for the 'enable password',
so I'm actually able to log in here. If I did a 'config t' now and set 'enable secret' as the new secret
of 'Flackbox2', and hit Enter,
'copy run
start' at the enable prompt, a 'copy
run start'.
This is what I should have done earlier in the lab, set a different 'enable secret'.
Then, when I rebooted, it would have asked me for that new 'enable secret', which I do know.
Okay,
hopefully, that entertains you watching me make a couple of mistakes there.
I'll try not to do it in the next lecture.